java/java.lsp.server/vscode/BUILD.md, before:

# Developing NetBeans based Extension for VS Code

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

## Prerequisities

- JDK, version 11 or later
- Ant, latest version
- Maven, latest version
- node.js, latest LTS (to build VSIX)


## Getting the Code

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/netbeans.git
$ cd netbeans/
```

## Building

To build the VS Code extension invoke:

```bash
netbeans$ ant build
netbeans$ cd java/java.lsp.server
java.lsp.server$ ant build-vscode-ext
```
The resulting extension is then in the `build` directory, with the `.vsix` extension.
The typical file name is `apache-netbeans-java-0.1.0.vsix` - the version can be
changed by using the `-Dvsix.version=x.y.z` property - that's what
[continuous integration server](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Netbeans/job/netbeans-vscode/)
and release builders do.

### Building for Development

If you want to develop the extension, use these steps for building instead:

```bash
netbeans$ cd java/java.lsp.server
java.lsp.server$ ant build-lsp-server
java.lsp.server$ cd vscode
vscode$ npm install
vscode$ npm run watch
```

This target is faster than building the `.vsix` file. Find the instructions
for running and debugging below.

### Cleaning

Often it is also important to properly clean everything. Use:

```bash
java.lsp.server$ ant clean-vscode-ext
java.lsp.server$ cd ../..
netbeans$ ant clean
```

### Testing

The `java.lsp.server` module has classical (as other NetBeans modules) tests.
The most important one is [ServerTest](https://github.com/apache/netbeans/blob/master/java/java.lsp.server/test/unit/src/org/netbeans/modules/java/lsp/server/protocol/ServerTest.java)
which simulates LSP communication and checks expected replies. In addition to
that there are VS Code integration tests - those launch VS Code with the
VSNetBeans extension and check behavior of the TypeScript integration code:

```bash
java.lsp.server$ ant build-vscode-ext # first and then
java.lsp.server$ ant test-vscode-ext
```

In case you are behind a proxy, you may want to run the tests with

```bash
java.lsp.server$ npm_config_https_proxy=http://your.proxy.com:port ant test-vscode-ext
```

when executing the tests for the first time. That shall overcome the proxy
and download an instance of `code` to execute the tests with.

### Eating our own Dog Food

Using the application yourself is the best way of testing! If you want to
_edit/compile/debug_ Apache NetBeans sources, there is a way. After building
the project, execute:

```bash
vscode$ npm run apisupport
```

the system connects to associated autoupdate center and downloads, installs
and enables `org.netbeans.modules.apisupport.ant` module. With such module installed
one can open Apache NetBeans projects and work with them directly from VSCode.

## Running and Debugging

To use the extension created for developement you can run VS Code with
following parameter:

```bash
vscode$ code --extensionDevelopmentPath=`pwd` path_to_project
```

Or you can open the `vscode` folder in `code` directly and use **F5** to
debug the extension's *typescript code*.

To debug the *Java code*, launch the NetBeans part of the VS Code system first
and specify suitable debug arguments to start _standalone NBLS_ instance:

```bash
vscode$ npm run nbcode -- --jdkhome /jdk -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000
```

To add extra modules while debugging the NetBeans part
```bash
vscode$ npm run nbcode -- -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=8000 -J-Dnetbeans.extra.dirs=/path/to/extension
```

Connect to the process with Java debugger, setup all breakpoints. Then launch
the VS Code extension (which connects to the already running _standalone NBLS_ Java process):

```bash
vscode$ code --extensionDevelopmentPath=`pwd` path_to_the_maven_project
```

To start from a clean state, following
[CLI options](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line)
maybe of an interest:
- `--user-data-dir` - clean any user settings with this option
- `--extensions-dir` - avoid 3rd party extensions using this option

**Important note**: when `--user-data-dir` is used, the _standalone NBLS_ must be start as
```bash
vscode$ nbcode_userdir=/the-code-user-data-dir npm run nbcode --  --jdkhome /jdk -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000
```
So that the vscode can connect to the _standalone NBLS_ instance.

### NBLS userdir locations
The default userdir location is inside the **global** vscode settings location:
- on Linux: `~/.config/Code/User/globalStorage//asf.apache-netbeans-java/userdir
- on MacOS X: ~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/globalStorage//asf.apache-netbeans-java/userdir

When the environment variable `nbcode_userdir` (to e.g. `/tmp/foo`) is set when starting vscode or nbcode (npm run nbcode), the userdir will point to `/tmp/foo/userdir`.

### Debug output 
_Standalone NBLS_ can be instructed to print messages (stderr, out) to the console: add `-J-Dnetbeans.logger.console=true` to the npm commandline. This has the same effect as `netbeans.verbose = true` settings in the vscode. Messages from the LSP protocol can be displayed in vscode by setting `java.trace.server = verbose` setting in vscode JSON settings.

### Debugging separately from global NBLS
By default the extension uses **global** userdir of the **global** vscode instance and uses NBLS data in there. In case this is not desired, the `launch.json` must be changed:
```
			"env": {
				"nbcode_userdir": "/path/to/development/area"
			}
```
When using _standalone NBLS_ at the same time, the NBLS must be started as
```bash
vscode$ user_data_dir=/path/to/development/area npm run nbcode -- --jdkhome /jdk -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000
```
This way the NBLS will use a separate config/cache directory and will not interfere with the default / global installation.

Commit message:

Perform LSP tracing server-side.

java/java.lsp.server/vscode/BUILD.md, after:

# Developing NetBeans based Extension for VS Code

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

## Prerequisities

- JDK, version 11 or later
- Ant, latest version
- Maven, latest version
- node.js, latest LTS (to build VSIX)


## Getting the Code

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/netbeans.git
$ cd netbeans/
```

## Building

To build the VS Code extension invoke:

```bash
netbeans$ ant build
netbeans$ cd java/java.lsp.server
java.lsp.server$ ant build-vscode-ext
```
The resulting extension is then in the `build` directory, with the `.vsix` extension.
The typical file name is `apache-netbeans-java-0.1.0.vsix` - the version can be
changed by using the `-Dvsix.version=x.y.z` property - that's what
[continuous integration server](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Netbeans/job/netbeans-vscode/)
and release builders do.

### Building for Development

If you want to develop the extension, use these steps for building instead:

```bash
netbeans$ cd java/java.lsp.server
java.lsp.server$ ant build-lsp-server
java.lsp.server$ cd vscode
vscode$ npm install
vscode$ npm run watch
```

This target is faster than building the `.vsix` file. Find the instructions
for running and debugging below.

### Cleaning

Often it is also important to properly clean everything. Use:

```bash
java.lsp.server$ ant clean-vscode-ext
java.lsp.server$ cd ../..
netbeans$ ant clean
```

### Testing

The `java.lsp.server` module has classical (as other NetBeans modules) tests.
The most important one is [ServerTest](https://github.com/apache/netbeans/blob/master/java/java.lsp.server/test/unit/src/org/netbeans/modules/java/lsp/server/protocol/ServerTest.java)
which simulates LSP communication and checks expected replies. In addition to
that there are VS Code integration tests - those launch VS Code with the
VSNetBeans extension and check behavior of the TypeScript integration code:

```bash
java.lsp.server$ ant build-vscode-ext # first and then
java.lsp.server$ ant test-vscode-ext
```

In case you are behind a proxy, you may want to run the tests with

```bash
java.lsp.server$ npm_config_https_proxy=http://your.proxy.com:port ant test-vscode-ext
```

when executing the tests for the first time. That shall overcome the proxy
and download an instance of `code` to execute the tests with.

### Eating our own Dog Food

Using the application yourself is the best way of testing! If you want to
_edit/compile/debug_ Apache NetBeans sources, there is a way. After building
the project, execute:

```bash
vscode$ npm run apisupport
```

the system connects to associated autoupdate center and downloads, installs
and enables `org.netbeans.modules.apisupport.ant` module. With such module installed
one can open Apache NetBeans projects and work with them directly from VSCode.

## Running and Debugging

To use the extension created for developement you can run VS Code with
following parameter:

```bash
vscode$ code --extensionDevelopmentPath=`pwd` path_to_project
```

Or you can open the `vscode` folder in `code` directly and use **F5** to
debug the extension's *typescript code*.

To debug the *Java code*, launch the NetBeans part of the VS Code system first
and specify suitable debug arguments to start _standalone NBLS_ instance:

```bash
vscode$ npm run nbcode -- --jdkhome /jdk -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000
```

To add extra modules while debugging the NetBeans part
```bash
vscode$ npm run nbcode -- -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=8000 -J-Dnetbeans.extra.dirs=/path/to/extension
```

Connect to the process with Java debugger, setup all breakpoints. Then launch
the VS Code extension (which connects to the already running _standalone NBLS_ Java process):

```bash
vscode$ code --extensionDevelopmentPath=`pwd` path_to_the_maven_project
```

To start from a clean state, following
[CLI options](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line)
maybe of an interest:
- `--user-data-dir` - clean any user settings with this option
- `--extensions-dir` - avoid 3rd party extensions using this option

**Important note**: when `--user-data-dir` is used, the _standalone NBLS_ must be start as
```bash
vscode$ nbcode_userdir=/the-code-user-data-dir npm run nbcode --  --jdkhome /jdk -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000
```
So that the vscode can connect to the _standalone NBLS_ instance.

### NBLS userdir locations
The default userdir location is inside the **global** vscode settings location:
- on Linux: `~/.config/Code/User/globalStorage//asf.apache-netbeans-java/userdir
- on MacOS X: ~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/globalStorage//asf.apache-netbeans-java/userdir

When the environment variable `nbcode_userdir` (to e.g. `/tmp/foo`) is set when starting vscode or nbcode (npm run nbcode), the userdir will point to `/tmp/foo/userdir`.

### Debug output 
_Standalone NBLS_ can be instructed to print messages (stderr, out) to the console: add `-J-Dnetbeans.logger.console=true` to the npm commandline. This has the same effect as `netbeans.verbose = true` settings in the vscode. 

### LSP protocol tracing
Messages from the LSP protocol can be displayed in vscode by setting `java.trace.server = verbose` setting in vscode JSON settings. Sometimes it may be needed to record LSP requests and responses in the debug output log stream from the Apache NetBeans language server so that requests are properly ordered with logs from executed actions. This can be enabled on language server startup by adding `-J-Dorg.netbeans.modules.java.lsp.server.lsptrace.level=FINEST`
to the NBLS commandline.

### Debugging separately from global NBLS
By default the extension uses **global** userdir of the **global** vscode instance and uses NBLS data in there. In case this is not desired, the `launch.json` must be changed:
```
			"env": {
				"nbcode_userdir": "/path/to/development/area"
			}
```
When using _standalone NBLS_ at the same time, the NBLS must be started as
```bash
vscode$ user_data_dir=/path/to/development/area npm run nbcode -- --jdkhome /jdk -J-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000
```
This way the NBLS will use a separate config/cache directory and will not interfere with the default / global installation.
